DATABASE MAINTENANCE SCRIPTS
----------------------------

There are three scripts in this directory: find_missing_constraints.rb,
fix_database.rb, and validate_constraints.rb.  Complete usage details for each
is available by using the --help and --man options.

This is a brief summary of the motivation for and the use of each script.


fix_database.rb
---------------

This script was motivated by the need to repair a database where the id numbers
for new rows were allocated in the wrong range—to be specific, they were
allocated starting at 99000000001 rather than starting at the number
corresponding to the id number of the machine where the database resides.  (See
https://pecan.gitbook.io/betydb-documentation/betydb-system-administration/distributed-betydb#primary-key-allocations
for a list of BETYdb instances and their corresponding primary key allocations.)

When id numbers have been mis-allocated, three things must be done to repair the
database:

1. The sequence object for each public table should be set to start issuing new
id numbers in the correct range.

2. Existing rows having id numbers in the wrong range should be updated so that
their id numbers are in the appropriate range.

3. Foreign-key references to the updated ids should be updated to match.  This
will happen automatically if the correct foreign-key constraints are in place.

Running the script will output the SQL statements needed to effect these
changes.  These SQL statements are then run against the database in question.
IT IS UP TO THE USER TO ENSURE THAT THE NEEDED FOREIGN-KEY CONSTRAINTS ARE IN
PLACE BEFORE RUNNING THESE SQL STATEMENTS.  If they are not, important
information may be lost.  The script "find_missing_constraints.rb" may be used
to check that all needed foreign-key constraints are present; if all is as it
should be, running it should produce no output.  As of migration
20180510184222_update_foreign_key_constraints.rb, all needed foreign-key
constraints should be in place.

The script has no command-line parameters.  Instead, configuration information
is read from a YAML file named "connection_specification.yml" or may be provided
interactively.


find_missing_constraints.rb
---------------------------

This script looks at column names of each public table.  Outside of certain
known exceptions, it assumes that each column with a name of the form "xxxxx_id"
is a reference to the id column of some table (usually having a name
corresponding to the pluralized form of "xxxxx").  It then checks that there is
a corresponding foreign-key constraint and outputs a "not found" warning if
there is not.

Again, this script uses the "connection_specification.yml" file for
configuration information.


validate_constraints.rb
-----------------------

This script has a number of purposes, all having to do with checking that check
constraints and/or foreign-key constraints are valid for existing data, or
alternatively, simply listing these constraints.

In "validate" mode, the script tries to validate all constraints that have been
marked "NOT VALID".  It will report whether or not validation was successful.

Normally, once a constraint has been validated, or if it was initially added
without the "NOT VALID" clause, all existing data should comply with the
constraint.  This is not always the case, however, as constraints may be
temporarily disabled before adding or updating data.  Thus we also have a
"revalidate" mode, which checks the validity of even those constraints that are
not marked "NOT VALID".

In "list" mode, all constraints of the specified types are listed.

In the course of running the script, the valid/not-valid status of a constraint
may change.  By default, the script will restore the status of each constraint
to what it was before the script was run, even if this status does not
accurately reflect the state of the database.  (For example, a constraint may be
returned to "valid" status even if some existing data violates the constraint.)
The idea is that we want to be able to get information about the database
without changing it in any way.  This default "restore" rule may be overridden
by using various values of the "restore" command-line parameter.

Although this script has a number of command-line parameters, the database
connection information is still provided using the
"connection_specification.yml" or is provided interactively.

